# Notes today graciously given by lchheniv


// CLASS NOTES 10-19 

Student Question : I didn't hear it.

which lead to below.

Model / Viewer / Control Pattern

Observer Pattern

    -interface for callback

    -list of interfaces / Listeners

    - iterate over listeners call each handle()



New ActionListener() {
    @Override

    void handle (ActionEvent e) {



    }

}

public void addPathHandler (PathHandler handler) {
    pathHandlers.add(handler)
}

private void firePathEvent() {
    for (PathHandler ph: pathHandlers) {
        ph.pantherhandlers something get something
    }
}


public class RssController {
    RssView view = null;
    RssModel model = null;

    public RssController(RssView, RssModel) {
        this.view = view;
        this.model = model;

        view.addPathHandler (
            (String path) -> {

                NEW PATHHANDLER CODE FROM ABOVE

                try {
                    model.startFetch(path);

                } catch (RssException re) {
                    view.showError(re.getMessage());
                }
            }
        );

        // Question about "What is the point in the Vector" I get an error"
        // Here it is being used for storing a list of results 
        // so we don't know in principle of how many RssResults we will get
        // so we have to use an array or a vector to pass in something idk
        // 
        mode.addResultsHandler(
            (Vector <RssResult> results) -> {
                view.showResults(results);
            }
        );

        model.addErrorHandler(
            (String error -> {
                view.showError(error);
            }
        )
    }
}


There seems to be a RssView.java, RssController.java, RssResult, RssFactory, etc. woahh.

Model

    - represents the task and has functions to perform the task
      and events represents the changes in the task

View

    - functions to display state and events (represent user interaction)

Controller

    - ties the two together 
    

public class RssView extends VBox {
    private VBox entriesBox;
    private TextField pathField;
}

public RssView() {
    setSpacing(8.0);

    HBox top = new HBox();




}

trying to write all the code i see on his projection

public void showResults(Vector<RssResult> results) {
    entriesBox.getChildren.clear();

    for(RssResult)
}



long-running jobs
    use threads!

    Process -> one sequence of execution

    If you want to do two things at a time essentially, you have to create a new process and find
    some way to talk to it.

    A thread modifies this design. A thread is a resource that your process can own that represents a 
    sequence and state of execution.

    Within your process, you have resources and among those resources there are threads which are loosely execution states.

    Process -> resources -> threads / execution states

    When you start your application, a new thread is created to hold your main routine.

    As your process runs, you can create new threads and terminate them.

    Nothing special about the main thread you can terminate that one. 

    ---- 

    concerns with threads 

    one of the more obvious issues is 

        - How do you create them?

            Creating a thread is fairly easy. 
            In Java, you have the convenient thread class. 

            thread

            public void run()

            easiest way to implement in Java is create a class and override the above method

            thr.start();

            This function in the calling thread unless it breaks, will return immediately
            and whatever work you put in the run method will happen in another thread in another application


        - How do you collect the results that they produce?

            Threads are simpler than processes. Threads share all it's processes resource.
            Threads are within a process. If you have an open file

            file f;
            Connection i, 

            LONG RUNNING JOBS, USE THREADS.

            Think about a database connection (a shared resource)

            thread A    Connection C    thread B 

            connection C goes through a series of steps

            at some point thread a and thread b are running. Thread A calls on the connection, and then operates.
            Thread B calls on connection and startings running as well. Problem. 

            Window for Connection B is being used by both threads. During this time, both connections might mangle
            our database. In this window, halfway It's important to remember and realize the code
            that represents the Connection function will be running twice because of both threads.
            Unless we build coordination into them, there will be no coordination between them.




        - How do you synchronize them?

            Acquire a lock - function basically will acquire / block / wait
            So with thread A will acquire and lock - and then Release
            then thread B will whatever is being used.

            do whatever

            Release the lock

            --- Threads seem awful. All this seems awful. This is the next homework :(

            Suppose we have a long running job with an event loop we want to run without screwing up anything.

            Long-running
                -> the idle-event
                    - runs last
                    file i/o 

                    attach idle event to do each micro-step, takes little bites off the tasks as you run the event loop
                    
                    creates lag in program / non-responsive if it takes forever for idle

                -> threading
                    - newer idea
                    
                    thread a -      event loop -     thread b
                                dispatch events
                                rereading GUI from b
                                goto repeat 

                    Different states, out of synchronize
                    or even worse in the middle of a draw function

                    Example : Imagine having a progress bar that needs to be filled in. That iteratively rerenders
                    what happens when the state of this progressbar gets changed in the middle of this?

                    It might lose it's progress.


                    task ......

                        locks progress
                        changes it
                        unlocks

                    .......

                    event loop 

                    dispatch events
                    idle event ....
                        
                        locks progress
                        set progress bar
                        unlocks

                    .....

                    
                        



        


