********NOTES COURTESY OF LAWRENCE CHEN (https://github.com/lcheniv)********

// Class Notes - 9/14/2017

- went over homework 2 in more detail and the format he was looking format

- part 2 - seems like technically the radio buttons arn't even connected to the game
  if the user keep's pressing the "Guess" button, then he will eventually win

-------------------------------------------------

MyRunner class - new window

When we get multiple new windows... how do we know when to close our application?
Some toolkits have windowOnClosedEvent.

JavaFX have a default behavior ends the application whenever all visable applications have closed.

Window A (parent) --> Window B (child)

However when Window B is created, all of A will be blocked from being accessed because B is on top

Create a "Show B" button in Window a

callback {

    Window B = new Window();
    B.show();

}

If i'm the user and B appears, what has happened to the respect of the callback?
What program flow are we in? I have called the button to show Window B and we
reached the state where the user can drag the window around...

    - So, who understands the question?
    - How many event loops are there?
    - What's the minimum number of loops there has to be?
        A: 1

events {

    callback {

        Window B = new Window();
        B.show();

        //new

        print(B.someProperty());

    }

}

--------------------------------

events {
    callback {
        MyDialogg d = new MyDialog();
        d.blockingShow();
        print(d.someProperty());
    }
}

He went over loop events and them being over each other, but I stopped paying attention.



--------------------------------






AlertWidget aw = new AlertWidget();
aw.setAlignment(Pos.CENTER);

Seperate class

class AlertWidget extends GridPane {

    public AlertWidget() {

        // New Window button
        Button windowB = new Button("Window");
        add(windowB, 0, 0);
        windowB.setOnAction(
            event -> {

                Stage s = new Stage();
                s.setTitle("new stage");
                // Modal is the first root with no parent... I think
                // Non-interactive until the window is closed
                // s.initModality(Modality.APPLICATION_MODAL);
                s.initModality(Modality.WINDOW_MODAL);
                s.initOwner(this.getOwnerWindow());
                s.show();
                s.initStyle(StageStyle.DECORATED); //UNDECORATED or UTILITY
                // Stops execution here until event is shown
                s.setScene(new Scene(new PanelWidget()));
                s.showAndWait();
                System.out.println("run");

            }
        );

        Button alertB = new Button("alert");
        add(alert, 1, 0);
        alertB.setOnAction(
            event -> {
                Alert a = new Alert(AlertType.CONFIRMATION, "Class is almost over!", ButtonType.OK);
                Optional<ButtonType> result = a.showAndWait;

                if(result.isPresent() && result.get() == ButtonType.OK){
                    System.out.println();
                }

            }
        )

    }

    private Window getOwnerWindow() {

        Scene parentScene = this.getScene();
        if(parentScene != null){

            return parentScene.getWindow();

        }

        return null;

    }
}

When would we not be in a scene?
    - When we are not in a window
